---
title: "PhD: How can data supported decision making tools be used to improve the
  pathway to care for people with COPD"
weight: 1
section: north-west-coast/building-capacity-phds/phd-how-can-data-supported-decision-making-tools-be-used-to-improve-the-pathway-to-care-for-people-with-copd
level: 4.8.1
parent: north-west-coast/building-capacity-phds
resources:
  - path: /assets/north-west-coast/Section 4.8.1_How can data supported decision making tools be used to improve the pathway to care for people with COPD.pdf
    title: How can data supported decision making tools be used to improve the pathway to care for people with COPD
---

A collage of information is required for effective clinical decision-making around a patient’s care. This includes reviewing paper notes, digital documentation, and liaising with other clinicians involved in the patient’s care.  

Data supported decision-making (DSDM) technology can support clinicians in this process, by connecting them to required data and providing useful visualisations of that data.  

However, understanding how to design these technologies and how clinicians will engage with them is crucial to their success in practice.  
Moreover, there is potential for clinicians to access health data generated by patients themselves to better manage the patient’s care and promote self-management.  

To explore this in more detail, we have worked with healthcare professionals and patients to uncover their needs for designing DSDM technologies that aim to support Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) care.  

COPD is a large challenge both on individual patients and healthcare services in the North of England, which makes it an important point of focus for this research.  

We present novel design considerations that can help future work in the area of designing DSDM technologies that aim to improve the care of patients with COPD.  
        
